ayanāmśa.md, before:

# About different ayanamshas

From the [Swiss ephemeris documentation][1]

We have found that there are basically three definitions, not counting the
manifold variations:

1. the Babylonian zodiac with Spica at 29 Virgo or Aldebaran at 15 Taurus:
    a) P. Huber, b) Fagan/Bradley c) refined with Aldebaran at 15 Tau
2. the Greek-Arabic-Hindu zodiac with the zero point between 10 and 20 east of zeta Piscium:
    a) Hipparchus, b) Ushâshashî, c) Sassanian
3. the Greek-Hindu astrological zodiac with Spica at 0 Libra
    a) Lahiri
 
The differences are:
between 1) and 3) is about 1 degree
between 1) and 2) is about 5 degrees
between 2) and 3) is about 4 degrees

The zero points of all of these are around 560 AD:

```
04. name = Ushashashi              , julday = 1925433.8940655 year = +0559, month = 07, day = 23, hour = 009:27:27.25914001
15. name = Hipparchos              , julday = 1920430.0933129 year = +0545, month = 11, day = 09, hour = 014:14:22.23971397
16. name = Sassanian               , julday = 1927135.8163668 year = +0564, month = 03, day = 20, hour = 007:35:34.09921378
22. name = Suryasiddhanta, mean Sun, julday = 1909045.5186681 year = +0514, month = 09, day = 09, hour = 000:26:52.92675734
24. name = Aryabhata, mean Sun     , julday = 1909650.7495622 year = +0516, month = 05, day = 06, hour = 005:59:22.17763424
25. name = SS Revati               , julday = 1924230.2014096 year = +0556, month = 04, day = 05, hour = 016:50:1.79022253
26. name = SS Citra                , julday = 1847826.9474462 year = +0347, month = 01, day = 29, hour = 010:44:19.35084075
```

Ushashashi (Indian), Hipparchos (Greek), Sassanian (Arabic) and SS Revati
(Suryasiddhanta) are all based on Revati.  The rest are based on Citra.


```
SS_REVATI: The Suryasiddhanta also mentions that Revati/zeta-Piscium is
exactly at 359°50’ in polar ecliptic longitude (projection onto the ecliptic
along meridians). Therefore the following two ayanamshas were added:
 
25) ayanamsha = -0.79167046          21 Mar 499, 7:30:31.57 UT = noon at Ujjain, 75.7684565 E.
                                     Revati/zePsc at polar ecliptic longitude 359°50’


SS_CITRA: The Suryasiddhanta gives Spica the position 180° in polar longitude
(ecliptic longitude, but projection on meridian lines). From this, the following
Ayanamsha can be derved:

26) ayanamsha = 2.11070444           21 Mar 499, 7:30:31.57 UT = noon at Ujjain, 75.7684565 E.
                                     Citra/Spica at polar ecliptic longitude 180°.
 
``` 

`TRUE_CITRA`, `TRUE_REVATI` and `TRUE_PUSHYA` give same constant value of their
ayanamsa. They do not change w.r.t julian date, unlike others:

```
27. name = True Citra           3°52’15.85906894”
28. name = True Revati          0°00’00.00000000”
29. name = True Pushya       -106°00’00.00000000”
```


```python 
import swisseph as swe
jd = 1927135.8747793 # 18 Mar 564

swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_TRUE_REVATI)
to_dms(swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(jd))

  [0, 0, 0.0]

swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_TRUE_CITRA)
to_dms(swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(jd))
  [3, 52, 15.859])

```

Among the Indian/Hindu traditions for calculating Ayanamsha, the Lahiri system
is based on Citra (Spica). For the above date, some notable values:

```
# All these are > 1°
('Fagan/Bradley', 0, [4, 44, 51.221])
('Lahiri', 1, [3, 51, 51.136])
('Krishnamurti', 5, [3, 46, 3.406])
('SS Citra', 26, [3, 0, 46.101])
('True Citra', 27, [3, 52, 15.859])

# All these are [0°, 1°)
('Ushashashi', 4, [0, 3, 52.862])
('Suryasiddhanta', 21, [0, 54, 7.565])
('Suryasiddhanta, mean Sun', 22, [0, 41, 14.883])
('Aryabhata', 23, [0, 54, 7.568])
('Aryabhata, mean Sun', 24, [0, 39, 52.091])
('SS Revati', 25, [0, 6, 37.551])
('True Revati', 28, [0, 0, 0.0])
```

The closest value among Indian traditions is that of Uṣāśaśi, with
0°3′53″. Interestingly, the Greek and Arabic traditions also predict a value
close to zero for the same date:

```
('Hipparchos', 15, [0, 15, 17.46])
('Sassanian', 16, [0, 0, 0.008])
```

In a sense, revatīpakṣa ayanāmśa has a remarkable Greek-Arabic-Indian
synchronism.

The Hipparchan ayanamsha is -9°20′ as on 27 June –128 (jd 1674484).

UshaShashi reaches zero point at 23 Jul 559 CE, 09:27

```python
for i in range(0, 29):
     swe.set_sid_mode(i)
     name = swe.get_ayanamsa_name(i) if i != 28 else 'True Revati'
     print(name, i, to_dms(swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(swe.julday(559, 7, 23, 9.46))))
```

[1]: http://www.astro.com/swisseph/swisseph.htm

## Galactic Center and Mūlā Nakṣatra

We can choose the zero-point of the ayanamsa to coincide exactly with the
beginning of Sagittarius/Dhanus constallation (which spans from 240° to
270°). This is what Swiss eph's `swe.SIDM_GALCENT_0SAG` does:

```
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_GALCENT_0SAG)
julday = 1746447.4042490 # 04 Jul, 69 CE
swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", julday, flag = swe.FLG_NOABERR | swe.FLG_SIDEREAL)
    (240.00133698938166, -5.349660021998989, 0.9999999999999999, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0)
```
where the longitude is `0° Sag 0’ 4.8132”`. If you get the Ayanamsa on that day,
it is indeed zero:

```
swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(julday)
    2.839101398421917e-09
```

There are 27 Nakshatras spanning 360° so each occupies 13°20’ exactly. The 30°
of Sagittarius is spanned by Mūlā Nakṣatra (0° to 13°20’), Pūrvāṣāḍhā (13°20’ to
26°40’), and Uttārāṣāḍhā 1st pādā (26°40’ to 30°). The above mode puts the
ayanamsa beginning at 0° Sag = 0° of Mūlā. However, people claim UshaShashi puts
the galactic center at the _middle_ of Mūlā instead of _beginning_.

```
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USHASHASHI)
julday = 1925433.8940655  # Zeropoint of Ayanamsa
swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(julday)
    1.5592931390528975e-09
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", julday, flag = swe.FLG_NOABERR | swe.FLG_SIDEREAL)
to_dms_prec(galc[0] % 30)
[6, 47, 44.2442]
```

The middle of Mūlā is `6°40’` but the above is off by 7’44” :(

Repeating the procedure for other types of Ayanamsas:

```
                     Sagittarius         Sagittarius
                  (with FLG_NOABERR)  (without FLG_NOABERR)
GALACTIC_CENTER   [0, 0, 4.8132]      [0, 0, 19.7637]

SS_REVATI         [6, 44, 59.5756]    [6, 45, 12.2397]
USHASHASHI        [6, 47, 44.2442]    [6, 47, 56.4404]
SASSANIAN         [6, 51, 37.0657]    [6, 51, 44.8046]
HIPPARCHAN        [6, 36, 19.763]     [6, 35, 59.9548]

LAHIRI            [2, 59, 47.7086]    [2, 59, 44.6748]
FAGAN_BRADLEY     [2, 6, 48.0358]     [2, 6, 28.4751]
SS_CITRA          [3, 50, 52.4752]    [3, 50, 43.5064]
YUKTESHWAR        [4, 22, 28.7773]    [4, 22, 17.8058]
```

The correct value is `6°40’`, SS_REVATI is the closest.

In fact, we can calculate our own Ayanamsa (by bisection root-finding) to
coincide with the middle of Mūlā:

```
julday = swe.julday(550, 3, 9, 14 + 3/60. + 32.45/3600.)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, julday, 0)  # we assert that ayanamsa(julday) == 0
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", julday, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL); to_dms_prec(galc[0] % 30)
    [6, 40, 0.0]
```

So, choosing the zero-point of Ayanamsa on 9 Mar 550 CE at 14:03:32.45 UTC
(JD 1922011.0857922453) results in placing the Galactic Center at the
middle of Mūlā nakshatra (6°40’).

[This post from Ernst Wilhelm][2] suggests to set the middle-Mula-ayanamsa to
20°11'11" on 1/1/2000. This also results in 6°39.5’

```
julday = swe.julday(2000, 1, 1)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, julday, 20 + 11/60. + 11./3600)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", julday, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL); to_dms_prec(galc[0] % 30)
   [6, 39, 34.830456]
```

## TRUE_CITRA and TRUE_REVATI

### Revati at 359°50’

The Suryasiddhanta also mentions that Revati/zeta-Piscium is exactly at 359°50’
in polar ecliptic longitude (projection onto the ecliptic along
meridians). So, according to SS_REVATI:

```
jd = swe.julday(499, 3, 21, 7 + 30/60. + 21.57/3600)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, jd, -0.79167046)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Revati", jd, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL)
to_dms_prec(galc[0])
    [359, 43, 18.397513]
```

which is off by 7'18.4". Once again, we can do bisection search to find the
zero-point of Revati@359°50’:

```
jd = swe.julday(563, 7, 20, 19 + 16/60. + 2.17/3600)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, jd, 0.0)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Revati", jd, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH)
to_dms_prec(galc[0])
    [359, 49, 60.0]   # == 359°50'00'
```

This date of 20 Jul 563 is tantalizingly close to Sassanian 20 Mar 564.

Note that selecting `swe.SIDM_TRUE_REVATI` places Revati at exactly 360°(=0°)
instead of 359°50'.

### True Citra

A similar bisection search for Citra/Spica to be exactly 180° reveals:

```
julday = swe.julday(285, 1, 30, 11 + 55/60. + 10.92/3600)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, julday, 0.0)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Citra", julday, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH)
galc[0]
    179.99999999999895
```

This date of 30 Jan 285 is very close to `swe.SIDM_TRUE_CITRA`'s 04 Oct 285 and
`swe.SIDM_LAHIRI`'s 03 Sep 285. It is preferable to use SIDM_TRUE_CITRA because
it seems to give better precision:

```
julday = 1825430.71351322  # TRUE_CITRA's zero day
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_TRUE_CITRA)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Citra", julday, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH)
galc[0]
    179.99999999999994
```

### True Pushya

Surya Siddhanta mentions that Puṣya Nakṣatra (delta Cancri) is at 106°. This is
also proposed by P V R Narasimha Rao. Once again, bisection search reveals the
zero-point ayanamsa in 368 AD:

```
jd = swe.julday(368, 10, 28, 21 + 49/60. + 15.09/3600) # TRUE_PUSHYA's zero day
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, jd, 0.0)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut(",deCnc", jd, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH)
to_dms_prec(galc[0])
    [106, 0, 0.0]
```


#### Misc code
```python
def galc_center(jd, mode):
    swe.set_sid_mode(mode)
    galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", jd, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH | swe.FLG_NOABERR)
    return to_dms_prec(galc[0] % 30)
```

Commit message:

More bisection for Revati at 0 degrees

ayanāmśa.md, after:

# About different ayanamshas

From the [Swiss ephemeris documentation][1]

We have found that there are basically three definitions, not counting the
manifold variations:

1. the Babylonian zodiac with Spica at 29 Virgo or Aldebaran at 15 Taurus:
    a) P. Huber, b) Fagan/Bradley c) refined with Aldebaran at 15 Tau
2. the Greek-Arabic-Hindu zodiac with the zero point between 10 and 20 east of zeta Piscium:
    a) Hipparchus, b) Ushâshashî, c) Sassanian
3. the Greek-Hindu astrological zodiac with Spica at 0 Libra
    a) Lahiri
 
The differences are:
between 1) and 3) is about 1 degree
between 1) and 2) is about 5 degrees
between 2) and 3) is about 4 degrees

The zero points of all of these are around 560 AD:

```
04. name = Ushashashi              , julday = 1925433.8940655 year = +0559, month = 07, day = 23, hour = 009:27:27.25914001
15. name = Hipparchos              , julday = 1920430.0933129 year = +0545, month = 11, day = 09, hour = 014:14:22.23971397
16. name = Sassanian               , julday = 1927135.8163668 year = +0564, month = 03, day = 20, hour = 007:35:34.09921378
22. name = Suryasiddhanta, mean Sun, julday = 1909045.5186681 year = +0514, month = 09, day = 09, hour = 000:26:52.92675734
24. name = Aryabhata, mean Sun     , julday = 1909650.7495622 year = +0516, month = 05, day = 06, hour = 005:59:22.17763424
25. name = SS Revati               , julday = 1924230.2014096 year = +0556, month = 04, day = 05, hour = 016:50:1.79022253
26. name = SS Citra                , julday = 1847826.9474462 year = +0347, month = 01, day = 29, hour = 010:44:19.35084075
```

Ushashashi (Indian), Hipparchos (Greek), Sassanian (Arabic) and SS Revati
(Suryasiddhanta) are all based on Revati.  The rest are based on Citra.


```
SS_REVATI: The Suryasiddhanta also mentions that Revati/zeta-Piscium is
exactly at 359°50’ in polar ecliptic longitude (projection onto the ecliptic
along meridians). Therefore the following two ayanamshas were added:
 
25) ayanamsha = -0.79167046          21 Mar 499, 7:30:31.57 UT = noon at Ujjain, 75.7684565 E.
                                     Revati/zePsc at polar ecliptic longitude 359°50’


SS_CITRA: The Suryasiddhanta gives Spica the position 180° in polar longitude
(ecliptic longitude, but projection on meridian lines). From this, the following
Ayanamsha can be derved:

26) ayanamsha = 2.11070444           21 Mar 499, 7:30:31.57 UT = noon at Ujjain, 75.7684565 E.
                                     Citra/Spica at polar ecliptic longitude 180°.
 
``` 

`TRUE_CITRA`, `TRUE_REVATI` and `TRUE_PUSHYA` give same constant value of their
ayanamsa. They do not change w.r.t julian date, unlike others:

```
27. name = True Citra           3°52’15.85906894”
28. name = True Revati          0°00’00.00000000”
29. name = True Pushya       -106°00’00.00000000”
```


```python 
import swisseph as swe
jd = 1927135.8747793 # 18 Mar 564

swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_TRUE_REVATI)
to_dms(swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(jd))

  [0, 0, 0.0]

swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_TRUE_CITRA)
to_dms(swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(jd))
  [3, 52, 15.859])

```

Among the Indian/Hindu traditions for calculating Ayanamsha, the Lahiri system
is based on Citra (Spica). For the above date, some notable values:

```
# All these are > 1°
('Fagan/Bradley', 0, [4, 44, 51.221])
('Lahiri', 1, [3, 51, 51.136])
('Krishnamurti', 5, [3, 46, 3.406])
('SS Citra', 26, [3, 0, 46.101])
('True Citra', 27, [3, 52, 15.859])

# All these are [0°, 1°)
('Ushashashi', 4, [0, 3, 52.862])
('Suryasiddhanta', 21, [0, 54, 7.565])
('Suryasiddhanta, mean Sun', 22, [0, 41, 14.883])
('Aryabhata', 23, [0, 54, 7.568])
('Aryabhata, mean Sun', 24, [0, 39, 52.091])
('SS Revati', 25, [0, 6, 37.551])
('True Revati', 28, [0, 0, 0.0])
```

The closest value among Indian traditions is that of Uṣāśaśi, with
0°3′53″. Interestingly, the Greek and Arabic traditions also predict a value
close to zero for the same date:

```
('Hipparchos', 15, [0, 15, 17.46])
('Sassanian', 16, [0, 0, 0.008])
```

In a sense, revatīpakṣa ayanāmśa has a remarkable Greek-Arabic-Indian
synchronism.

The Hipparchan ayanamsha is -9°20′ as on 27 June –128 (jd 1674484).

UshaShashi reaches zero point at 23 Jul 559 CE, 09:27

```python
for i in range(0, 29):
     swe.set_sid_mode(i)
     name = swe.get_ayanamsa_name(i) if i != 28 else 'True Revati'
     print(name, i, to_dms(swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(swe.julday(559, 7, 23, 9.46))))
```

[1]: http://www.astro.com/swisseph/swisseph.htm

## Galactic Center and Mūlā Nakṣatra

We can choose the zero-point of the ayanamsa to coincide exactly with the
beginning of Sagittarius/Dhanus constallation (which spans from 240° to
270°). This is what Swiss eph's `swe.SIDM_GALCENT_0SAG` does:

```
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_GALCENT_0SAG)
julday = 1746447.4042490 # 04 Jul, 69 CE
swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", julday, flag = swe.FLG_NOABERR | swe.FLG_SIDEREAL)
    (240.00133698938166, -5.349660021998989, 0.9999999999999999, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0)
```
where the longitude is `0° Sag 0’ 4.8132”`. If you get the Ayanamsa on that day,
it is indeed zero:

```
swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(julday)
    2.839101398421917e-09
```

There are 27 Nakshatras spanning 360° so each occupies 13°20’ exactly. The 30°
of Sagittarius is spanned by Mūlā Nakṣatra (0° to 13°20’), Pūrvāṣāḍhā (13°20’ to
26°40’), and Uttārāṣāḍhā 1st pādā (26°40’ to 30°). The above mode puts the
ayanamsa beginning at 0° Sag = 0° of Mūlā. However, people claim UshaShashi puts
the galactic center at the _middle_ of Mūlā instead of _beginning_.

```
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USHASHASHI)
julday = 1925433.8940655  # Zeropoint of Ayanamsa
swe.get_ayanamsa_ut(julday)
    1.5592931390528975e-09
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", julday, flag = swe.FLG_NOABERR | swe.FLG_SIDEREAL)
to_dms_prec(galc[0] % 30)
[6, 47, 44.2442]
```

The middle of Mūlā is `6°40’` but the above is off by 7’44” :(

Repeating the procedure for other types of Ayanamsas:

```
                     Sagittarius         Sagittarius
                  (with FLG_NOABERR)  (without FLG_NOABERR)
GALACTIC_CENTER   [0, 0, 4.8132]      [0, 0, 19.7637]

SS_REVATI         [6, 44, 59.5756]    [6, 45, 12.2397]
USHASHASHI        [6, 47, 44.2442]    [6, 47, 56.4404]
SASSANIAN         [6, 51, 37.0657]    [6, 51, 44.8046]
HIPPARCHAN        [6, 36, 19.763]     [6, 35, 59.9548]

LAHIRI            [2, 59, 47.7086]    [2, 59, 44.6748]
FAGAN_BRADLEY     [2, 6, 48.0358]     [2, 6, 28.4751]
SS_CITRA          [3, 50, 52.4752]    [3, 50, 43.5064]
YUKTESHWAR        [4, 22, 28.7773]    [4, 22, 17.8058]
```

The correct value is `6°40’`, SS_REVATI is the closest.

In fact, we can calculate our own Ayanamsa (by bisection root-finding) to
coincide with the middle of Mūlā:

```
julday = swe.julday(550, 3, 9, 14 + 3/60. + 32.45/3600.)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, julday, 0)  # we assert that ayanamsa(julday) == 0
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", julday, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL); to_dms_prec(galc[0] % 30)
    [6, 40, 0.0]
```

So, choosing the zero-point of Ayanamsa on 9 Mar 550 CE at 14:03:32.45 UTC
(JD 1922011.0857922453) results in placing the Galactic Center at the
middle of Mūlā nakshatra (6°40’).

[This post from Ernst Wilhelm][2] suggests to set the middle-Mula-ayanamsa to
20°11'11" on 1/1/2000. This also results in 6°39.5’

```
julday = swe.julday(2000, 1, 1)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, julday, 20 + 11/60. + 11./3600)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", julday, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL); to_dms_prec(galc[0] % 30)
   [6, 39, 34.830456]
```

## TRUE_CITRA and TRUE_REVATI

### Revati at 359°50’

The Suryasiddhanta also mentions that Revati/zeta-Piscium is exactly at 359°50’
in polar ecliptic longitude (projection onto the ecliptic along
meridians). So, according to SS_REVATI:

```
jd = swe.julday(499, 3, 21, 7 + 30/60. + 21.57/3600)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, jd, -0.79167046)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Revati", jd, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL)
to_dms_prec(galc[0])
    [359, 43, 18.397513]
```

which is off by 7'18.4". Once again, we can do bisection search to find the
zero-point of Revati@359°50’:

```
jd = swe.julday(563, 7, 20, 19 + 16/60. + 2.17/3600)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, jd, 0.0)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Revati", jd, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH)
to_dms_prec(galc[0])
    [359, 49, 60.0]   # == 359°50'00'
```

This date of 20 Jul 563 is tantalizingly close to Sassanian 20 Mar 564.

Note that selecting `swe.SIDM_TRUE_REVATI` places Revati at exactly 360°(=0°)
(instead of 359°50' like SS wants). It's zero-point is in 575 AD:

```
jd = swe.julday(575, 7, 18, 12 + 52/60. + 12.87/3600)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, jd, 0.0)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Revati", jd, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH)
to_dms_prec(galc[0])
    [359, 59, 60.0]   # == 360°00'00' = 0°
```

### True Citra

A similar bisection search for Citra/Spica to be exactly 180° reveals:

```
julday = swe.julday(285, 1, 30, 11 + 55/60. + 10.92/3600)
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, julday, 0.0)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Citra", julday, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH)
galc[0]
    179.99999999999895
```

This date of 30 Jan 285 is very close to `swe.SIDM_TRUE_CITRA`'s 04 Oct 285 and
`swe.SIDM_LAHIRI`'s 03 Sep 285. It is preferable to use SIDM_TRUE_CITRA because
it seems to give better precision:

```
julday = 1825430.71351322  # TRUE_CITRA's zero day
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_TRUE_CITRA)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Citra", julday, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH)
galc[0]
    179.99999999999994
```

### True Pushya

Surya Siddhanta mentions that Puṣya Nakṣatra (delta Cancri) is at 106°. This is
also proposed by P V R Narasimha Rao. Once again, bisection search reveals the
zero-point ayanamsa in 368 AD:

```
jd = swe.julday(368, 10, 28, 21 + 49/60. + 15.09/3600) # TRUE_PUSHYA's zero day
swe.set_sid_mode(swe.SIDM_USER, jd, 0.0)
galc = swe.fixstar_ut(",deCnc", jd, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH)
to_dms_prec(galc[0])
    [106, 0, 0.0]
```

## Summary

All these methods try to put zero point between 10' and 20' east of zeta
Piscium:

```
                                 t0              Position of zeta-Piscium at t0
Hipparchan                  09 Nov 545
Gal. Center@mid-Mūlā        09 Mar 550
SS Revati                   05 Apr 556
Ushashashi                  23 Jul 559
Revati@359°50'              20 Jul 563
Sassanian                   20 Mar 564
True Revati@0°              18 Jul 575
```

SS Revati or Ushashashi seems to be a good middle-ground. Everybody seems to
have become familiar with Ushashashi only due to Swiss Ephemeris.


##### Misc code
```python
def galc_center(jd, mode):
    swe.set_sid_mode(mode)
    galc = swe.fixstar_ut("Gal. Center", jd, flag = swe.FLG_SIDEREAL | swe.FLG_SWIEPH | swe.FLG_NOABERR)
    return to_dms_prec(galc[0] % 30)
```
